well he's the straight-talking personal
trainer he's been called the Gordon
Ramsay the fitness industry James
Smith's made a name for himself with his
no-nonsense videos he's on a mission to
expose industry fads and fakers and
peers personally asked for him into the
studio Smith in our lives some see
James's curse filled Rance as
confrontational he has half a million
followers on social media and they hang
on his every in this case censored word
before people were talking about body
fat percentages people that be a fake
body face too much earning but the
amount of spending you're doing humans
are ever-growing the insecure personal
trainers the most insecure people
they've made a living off of it the one
thing that kills me though is this
notion of kick-starting your metabolism
it's not lawnmower mate you take selfies
all day no no offense you're narcissists
I love this more confrontational style I
think the secret actually to losing
weight is you somebody needs to shame
you into it don't do your worst James I
use the word fat but I don't know don't
go around calling people fat do you
think payers is fat no I do not thank
you mate do you think Pearce needs to
lose weight it's not the first thing I
thought about when I came in today thank
you James
but in the same sense that you know if
you see a homeless person you might give
them a couple pounds but you don't feel
they need to say you're really poor mate
you know it's something that we need to
offer a solution to and although I used
the word fat I used it with myself after
Christmas
I wasn't like dodging around the word I
was like guys I've got a bit fat and I
think that we're becoming very soft
around this word and I'm pretty sure
that before Twitter existed people were
fine with using that word okay so you
were a little peaceful I put on half a
stone over Christmas do you think I'm
fat well if you didn't put on half a
stone I don't think you did Christmas
right and I mean there are some people
that died to through Christmas
hang on you were supposed to be in to be
fat shaming us all well not Charlotte
because there isn't an ounce of fat on
her
but what weighs where's the hard core
James gone we need to tell people why
they're fat more so than just saying it
know what what are the myths about
personal trait what are they getting
wrong
where is society going wrong with this a
lot of people seem to think they're
overweight or obese or fat through bad
luck and unless someone's absorbing the
calories from the Sun that
over-consuming the amount of calories
for the amount they move and suddenly
there are so many scapegoats being
thrown out oh it's my genetics it's this
it's that but no we need to go back to
grass roots on that you are over
consuming for the amount you move and
again piers if you invite me around for
a family barbecue and your dog comes out
I think that dogs pretty fat I'm not
gonna think about feeding it aloe vera
or putting it on a skinny coffee kind of
blend I'm gonna go you need to take that
dog for more walks and feed it less and
if I was to make a comment about your
composition I'd say both of you I
consume too much and I don't exercise
enough I do a bit I do you know three or
four times a week but I should be out
there every day doing more but I need
someone like you to be shouting in my
ear can I Jem's the way that peers
exercise is he does peloton he does
sitting on her as you would say he sits
on a stationary bike and listens to some
playlists with some beep who's had too
much coffee every time they work out is
he doing it wrong nothing yeah that's
another scapegoat excuse I hear quite a
lot but I find it crazy that people are
going into dark rooms and they're
cycling on bikes and putting the brake
on and they're calling it a hillclimb
I'm like there are no hills in here mate
you are putting the brake on and they're
like come on guys let's try it but there
are hill climbs on peloton and I'm just
like hey like we've become very far
removed from you know you could go
outside you could walk your dog you
could take the stairs the London
Underground escalator oh my god I'm
there excuse me excuse me excuse me your
legs worked for 99% of your journey and
you get to the escalator and suddenly
they know you're not going to fat shame
piers but you're gonna peloton shame him
100% right okay it's very interesting
because I do you think we have to come
in this in a more abrasive way we've
also started to celebrate morbid obesity
we see morbidly obese models being put
on the cover of magazines and sort of
set up
that can't be right well instead of it
being a run or a right thing I think
society is not just looking to protect
everyone everyone's very protected
whether it's with what type of diet
you're on or whatever it is people are
going to come and back you up I think
that everyone's a victim now everyone is
a victim and we've become so far removed
from the original message that we need
to instill into people to create a
calorie deficit and I'm sure that if
these people on those magazines if they
actually understood how to lose fat they
might be doing a different career and I
feel there you know if they had
successfully lost fat instead of
glorifying that position they might
actually be leading the charge in fat
loss you haven't sworn yet how are you
controlling yourself with demeanor
outside saying do not swear I'm sweating
from holding it in called the Gordon
Ramsay of training and you'd like that
sank I'm fluttered to be compared to
someone so successful I actually haven't
seen much of Gordon Ramsay stuff I swear
to God and the book is not a diet book
the fanciest James if it was so easy if
it was just about calorie deficit surely
we would just all eat less move more and
be the ideal there's a mental battle as
were you saying it's also a very nuanced
abate and to say that doesn't help
anyone and in the book what I want to
call out is there a lot of industry
charlatans and if I was to get you guys
to name your top five fitness
professionals not one of them would
mention a calorie deficit
it'll be hey I've bunched together some
recipes good luck or they get you
certain ways to jump around your front
room and think it's the solution to
obesity and I'm here like no that's not
the way and is it any wonder that the
top five people that you know about made
millions of pounds and the nation is not
any better off from it obesity rates are
not declining we're not like oh well
done mate with your time in the
limelight and it's time to call these
people out and hold them accountable I
can't say from a slanted perspective Joe
wait so that's the chef isn't it oh yeah
but no he's he does recipes and cookery
where so this is he what are they baby
you're talking about I know we did talk
about Fitness people all right
I mean trainers yeah but in the book as
well you know I've said that really
servation that was a dig we really if
we're gonna shame anyone or hold anyone
accountable
it needs to be the Zilla celebrities who
are endorsing these rubbish products for
a couple of thousand pounds
you